git
Four areas
1.Working Copy
2.Staging Area
3.Local Repositry Area
4.Central Repositry.
1.create a repo in local

2.git init-
this command will create a git repositry area

3.Add some files
git add file name or 
git add * will add all files in staging area
this command will add files to staging area

4.git commit -m "message for your commit"
this command will add or move all the files in Git repositry area

5.git status
this command will give you details status about what files are in untracked,what are on staging area

6.git log
this command will give info about all the commits

7.Open git hub in browser login
Create a new repositry with same name of local repositry
---git add remote origin "url"
this command will create master Origin Repositry Area in git hub.
8. git push origin master
this command will push the changes from master of git repositry to master of Origin  Repositry area


To create branch
There are two ways to create branch
Move to master branch first-git checkput master
a.git branch branch name-This command will create a empty branch means without copying the code base from master branch.
git branch--it will list out all branch.it will show you are still on master.
git checkout branch name-it will intialize the empty branch wih master branch and also switch the branch.
  
To merge 
Now new branch is created.Do some changes.
git add *
git commit -m "messgae"

Move to master branch first
git checkout master --switch to master
git merge your branch name--this will merge your  branch to master.
now once changes has been merged delete the branch
To delete a branch
Move to master branch first
git branch -d your branch name whom you want to delete

b.Another way to create a branch
git checkout -b branch name
ex-git checkout -b feature.



git push origin master-this command will now push master branch changes to master branch of Origin Area.


git reset
this command will remove the files from staging area to local repositry
i.e whatever files you have added by git add will be removed.
